Well, we eagerly
look forward to the fulfillment
of 1 Thessalonians 5:3, don’t we?
Just before Jehovah’s day begins,
the nations will say, “Peace and security!”
And “then sudden destruction”
will come upon the wicked.
This morning, let’s remind ourselves
about some of the key elements
of this prophecy and its significance for us.
Please turn with me in your Bibles
to 1 Thessalonians chapter 5.
This prophecy was written by the apostle Paul
to the Christians
in Thessalonica around 50 C.E.
And let’s first notice
the attitude of these Christians,
as mentioned there in verse 1
—1 Thessalonians 5:1:
“Now as for the times
and the seasons, brothers,
you need nothing to be written to you.”
The zeal of these Christians was exemplary.
It was an example
to other Christians in the first century,
and it’s a good example for us today.
We can imitate the Thessalonian Christians
by remaining alert
to the times in which we’re living,
remaining aware of God’s timetable,
and not being distracted.
Now, why is that so important?
Notice verse 2:
“For you yourselves know very well
that Jehovah’s day
is coming exactly as a thief in the night.”
Jehovah’s day refers to the period that will
start with the destruction of false religion
and culminate in the war of Armageddon.
Like “a thief in the night”
—in other words, unforeseen—
destruction will strike when least expected.
Even true Christians who are in expectation
may be surprised by its sudden start.
But we won’t be caught off guard.
Why is that?
Well, because as true Christians,
we “keep in expectation,”
just as our comments for today mention.
On the other hand,
the world will experience
much more than just a surprise.
Notice our prophecy here in verse 3:
“Whenever it is that they are saying,
“‘Peace and security!’
“then sudden destruction
is to be instantly on them,
“just like birth pains on a pregnant woman,
and they will by no means escape.”
Now, the thought of humans achieving peace
or wanting to achieve that peace
—that isn’t anything new.
For example, what happened
after the two world wars?
The nations wanted peace.
After World War I, the League of Nations
was formed in the hope of bringing peace.
After World War II, the United Nations
became a popular hope
of bringing peace to mankind.
Government and religious leaders
looked to those agencies
to bring about peaceful conditions.
Many of us may remember back in 1986
the United Nations declaring
the International Year of Peace
and government and religious leaders
joining the head of the Catholic Church
to offer prayers for peace.
But neither that proclamation
of “peace and security” nor others like it
have been the fulfillment
of 1 Thessalonians 5:3.
Why not?
Well, for one thing, the foretold
“sudden destruction” hasn’t occurred yet.
Also, the fulfillment has to be
something striking enough
to justify its being recorded
as a specific prophecy inspired by Jehovah.
The “peace and security” proclamation
must be an exceptional development,
different from the many peace efforts
that have been made up until that time.
But no matter what form
the proclamation takes
or how convincing it may sound,
it will only be a veneer.
The world will still be
under the control of Satan.
And when you think about it,
proclamations of peace
won’t make any real changes in people.
Those proclamations
can’t make people love one another,
they can’t stop crime,
and they can’t eliminate disease and death
—things that are needed
to bring about true peace and security.
The proclamation of “peace and security”
won’t mean that the decay
of this old world has been reversed.
Second Timothy 3:13 says that “wicked men
and impostors will advance from” what?
Bad to better?
No, “bad to worse.”
Certainly no improvement foretold there.
Sadly, many in the world will be deceived
when they hear “peace and security.”
Destruction will strike when least expected,
when their attention
is on their hope for peace and security.
But Jehovah’s servants won’t be deceived.
Do you remember this image on our screens?
It’s in the October 2019 Watchtower,
and our picture description
helped us to see what’s happening.
It states: “Patrons at a coffee shop
“react to ‘Breaking News’ on television
about a proclamation
of ‘peace and security.’”
But we focus on the middle of that image.
And what’s happening there?
The description continues: “A Witness couple,
“taking a break from field service,
are not fooled by this report.”
We won’t be fooled
because we listen when God speaks.
We listen when God speaks.
And what does God tell us?
Psalm 4:8—King David,
under inspiration, wrote:
“I will lie down and sleep in peace,
“for you alone, O Jehovah,
make me dwell in security.”
So true peace and security
are only from Jehovah.
Any declaration of “peace and security”
expressed outside the context
of Jehovah’s Kingdom arrangement
is counterfeit.
It’s as worthless as counterfeit money.
That type of peace
can’t achieve anything of lasting value.
Well, how do we benefit from understanding
the significance of this prophecy?
Please notice verse 4:
“But you, brothers, you are not in darkness,
so that the day should overtake you
as it would thieves.”
Unlike people in general,
we discern where current events are heading.
Jehovah doesn’t keep us in the dark
regarding these significant events.
Actually, he dignifies us
by kindly giving us advance knowledge
in the form of a general outline of events
that are going to occur in the future.
Would we expect anything less
from our loving Father?
I thought this
was nicely highlighted in a quote
in the Awake!  magazine some years ago.
A branch received a letter
from a 77-year-old Catholic monk
who explained this:
“I do not agree with all your beliefs,
“but what I read today
in The Watchtower  makes me admit
“that you have your finger
on the pulse of time. . . .
“You courageously and legitimately explain
Paul’s words at 1 Thessalonians 5:3.”
And now notice what else he states:
“Nowhere in our church
do I find such explanations.
“A person cannot dispute
the workings of holy spirit
upon Jehovah’s Witnesses.”
Jehovah dignifies us
by kindly granting us advance knowledge.
Now, since we’re “not in darkness”
regarding future events,
as mentioned there in verse 4,
what more is required of us?
What’s required of you and me?
Notice verses 6 and 8:
“So, then, let us
not sleep on as the rest do,
but let us stay awake and keep our senses.”
Verse 8 says:
“But as for us who belong to the day,
“let us keep our senses
“and put on the breastplate of faith and love
and the hope of salvation as a helmet.”
There in verse 6, in speaking of “us,”
Paul was obviously referring
to genuine Christians
who are active and responsive
to Jehovah’s direction,
spiritually awake to God’s purpose.
The “rest” mentioned here would be
persons (perhaps professed Christians)
who are spiritually asleep
and unconcerned about the coming destruction.
Verse 8 likens faithful servants of God
to well-trained soldiers who are attentive,
who have on their protective armor,
and who are ready to obey
any command given by their leader.
See, we’re not like unprepared troops
sleeping in the barracks
during a time of danger and urgency.
And even though we don’t know
just when the proclamation
of “peace and security” will be made,
that doesn’t lessen the need
for alertness today, does it?
In fact, it greatly increases
and heightens the need for all of us
to be awake, watchful, and ready.
Our not knowing the exact time
requires that we be ready all the time.
Well, what have we considered?
We can imitate the Thessalonian Christians
by remaining alert to the times
in which we’re living,
remaining aware of God’s timetable,
and not being distracted.
No matter what form the proclamation
of “peace and security” takes
or how convincing it may sound,
it will only be a veneer.
We won’t be fooled
because we listen when God speaks.
And even though we don’t know
when the proclamation will be made,
we stay alert.
Not knowing greatly increases and heightens
the need to be spiritually awake.
May we all remain watchful and ready
as the proclamation
of “peace and security” draws ever closer!